well for more than two weeks services at
the AL shifa Hospital in Northern Gaza
came to a halt as Israeli forces laid
Siege to the strip's biggest health
facility many patients have since
experienced severe complications and a
number of them have died the hospital is
trying to restore critical operations at
least for now we'll speak to Dr Marwan
abusada who's the chief surgeon at shifa
hospital he's joining us from Gaza uh
joining us on the telephone from the
hospital itself uh Dr abusada thanks for
your time can you tell us about the
situation at El shifa hospital right
now uh at this moment we are preparing
the hospital to receive a new patients
especially to our emergency department
we are cleaning the hospital from the
old dirties in it and we are collecting
our team to come to shifa hospital and I
think in one or two days we'll open our
emergency department to receive
the patient we yesterday we succeeded to
manage and to do a kidney dialysis for
the patient with the stage renal failure
for more than 30 patients at our center
of the kidney dialysis and we are
calling all patients who are in need for
kidney do to come to shifa hospital is
ready now to acess more patients and on
a still operating theater is not and the
old Department not ready to admit
newcomers and so on but think we
preparing the ground to receive more and
more patients in the M mix tomorrow
morning tomorrow morning we'll open the
emergency department and in the next
days we'll open the theaters and other
department to receive the paent stilling
as you know more than
700,000 patients are allocated mostly in
the north area in the Eastern area of
Gaza and north of Gaza they are living
there and still they are in need of
medical services and the hospital sh
Hospital able to accommodate these
patients as
well until now not yet we are okay we
are in bad need for fuel to run our
generators and we have to repair some of
the oxygen generators which is damaged
by the Israel army during the incursion
of shifa Hospital still we are in need
no fuel AR to the medical yeah how much
fuel have have you gotten at El shifa
Hospital oh nothing we we got nothing
from a fuel from un they are sending a
fuel to the Wells of the Affiliated to
the UN and to the municipality some of
the municipality and to the some of the
other services uh R and Society services
for the ambulance and nothing received
from the Ministry of Health for the
hospital uh for the hospital use and so
on till now we are waiting to receive
fuel to run our generators especially in
the hospital CH and in the North Area
indan Hospital so when you when you've
asked for this fuel presumably you have
what have you been told about when you
will receive it and also with the aid
now go on yeah we we spoke with the UN
personel who came with this tanks of
fuel and we asked them about the fuel
for the hospital this is their
responsibility okay they asked they told
us this is not the fuel designated for
the hospital it is designated for the
world and for other municipality
services and so on and for ready
Christian Society ambulances this is
what I hear from them till now and
Israeli they are not allowing any fuel
to come to the hospitals to the
especially to Ministry of Health
hospitals there this days from the AIDS
that's coming from uh to Gaza through
the RAF border crossing over the past
few days while this ceasefire has been
in place how much Aid has reached you at
El shifa hospital I know what you've
said about fuel what about Medical Aid
that you've needed have you gotten
anything uh since this is fire okay
nothing is coming to the hospital I
think some most of the Medical Aid it
goes to uh sou area sou in hospital
nothing is coming to the northern area
of Gaza just the food and the water and
other stuff that and the fuel some of
the fuel which designated to the other
to other surface part of
in how many patients are currently still
at elifa hospital today no I I sadly to
say that we don't have any patients now
most of the patients are evacuated to
the sou hospital but a huge number of
patient they are at homes they are
asking for the surfaces to complete
their management not all patients who
got injured during this war they are
they went to the Souther hospital they
stayed here in Gaza and in the northern
part of Gaza a huge number of injured
patients with the fracture they are
coming each day to ask about the Health
Service about okay to the close the
shifa but tomorrow we hope that we'll
open the emergency department and to
start to receive the newcomers and new
and new patient to ship in terms of
priorities as to what you need right now
you've been very clear that you need
fuel yes yeah can you tell us what else
the top priority for us is the fuel and
to repair the generator
okay to maintain our oygen generators
and so on but the most important thing
is the fuel to run the generators of the
hospital without the fuel we cannot do
anything really in these hospitals uh Dr
abusada just a final question for you
because we know that when Israel
besieged the hospital and forced the
patients to leave at the time or a few
days later it um detained some of the
medical staff working there including
the the director of the hospital
Muhammad abui
um can you update us on um do you know
anything about his status or his
whereabouts right now uh still Dr Abu
detention from the Israeli side I think
and I think more than six doctors still
they are in detention of the Israeli
side and another okay medical staff is
still there okay about the number I
don't exactly know I think about six
doctors and other medical staff still
and more and some of our people
Palestina who live in Gaza in their way
to the South they have beened and so on
all right thank you so much Dr Marana
abusada thank you for speaking to us on
Al
room